Add more explanations (#16)
PyLadiesBerlin/python-beginners-workshop: tasks/README.rst

===============

Dictionaries are super useful python data structures and if you are dealing with data, like
wikipedia data, questionnaire data, or anything you can imagine, dictionaries will prove useful.

Continue in your file from the previous exercise or use the solution from the previous exercise
as a base for this exercise.

A) Let's use a dictionary to describe each room greeting. Create a dictionary

>    variable called ``door_greetings`` with keys the door numbers and values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   variable called ``door_greetings`` with keys being the door numbers and values
```

>    the door greeting. It could look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   being the door greeting. It could look like:
```

.. code-block:: python

   door_greetings = {'1': "Welcome to the paradise"}

::

Tip: Define the variable together with other global variables (see file_structure_).

> B) When the user enters each room print the corresponding door greeting from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
B) In each room the user enters, print the corresponding door greeting from the
```

   dictionary. Use the ``door`` variable to show the correct message.

7. While the user types crap keep asking
========================================

So far in the game when the user types something that is not correct, the program continues

> giving a message. What if we want that the program keeps asking until the user types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
giving a message. What if we want the program to keep asking until the user types
```

> something useful? Then the code should be executed again. For example if we would be asking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
something useful? Then the code should be executed again. Given the example where the
program expects only two possible answers:
```

Example ``Invalid message``:

.. code-block:: python

    number = input('Choose a door (1/2):')

    if number != '1' and number != '2':
        print('Only 1 or 2 is valid!!!!')

> The the code could be repeated with a `while` loop. Any command inside while (indented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code could be repeated with a `while` loop. Any command inside while (indented
```

> under while) would be repeated while the condition is valid. Eg.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
under while) would be repeated while the condition is valid.
```

Example ``while``:

.. code-block:: python

    number = 0
    while number != 'n':
        number = input('Do you want me to ask you again (y/n)?')

A) In a new file type the code from the example ``Invalid message`` above and make it repeat
   until the user types a valid option.

B) Now that you practiced a bit ``while``, use it in the main adventure file. Continue in your file from the previous exercise or use the solution from the previous exercise

>    as a base for this exercise. Make the program keep asking for a valid door while the user types wrong things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   as a base for this exercise. Make the program keep asking for a valid door while the user doesn't give an acceptable answer.
```

        else:
            dead("Man, learn to type a number.")

    def dead(message):
        print(message, "You are dead.")
        exit(0)

    start()

9. More dictionaries for the adventurous ones!
==============================================

Use the dictionary adventure below to control the game play instead of if-else statements.

The values of a dictionary can be dictionaries as well, that have values lists with elements that

> can be lists or dictionaries as well. This  can lead to a pretty complicated data structure. For example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be lists or dictionaries as well. This can lead to a pretty complicated data structure. For example:
```

.. code-block:: python

    map = {
        'sea': [
            {'boat1': ['maria', 'elena', 'stella']},
            {'boat2': ['jose', 'jes', 'katya']}],
        'shore': [
            {'building1': ['irina', 'fei', 'persa']}
        ]
    }

> The code above is a representation of  ``map``, with keys ``sea`` and ``shore``. Each of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above is a representation of  ``map``, with the keys ``sea`` and ``shore``. Each of
```

these keys have as values lists. The value of ``sea`` is
``[{'boat1': ['maria', 'elena', 'stella']}, {'boat2': ['jose', 'jes', 'katya']}]`` which is a list

> with 2 dictionary elements, each one is a dictionary with key the boat name and value the passengers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with 2 dictionary elements, each one is a dictionary with the key being the boat name and the value being the passengers.
```

> To print eg the passengers of ``boat2`` one shall do ``print(map['sea'][0]['boat2'])``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To print eg the passengers of ``boat2`` one shall do ``print(map['sea'][0]['boat2'])``.
```

We will use such a complex dictionary to control the adventure game. Create a new file and type the code below.

> The variable dictionary ``adventure`` that has as values dictionaries as well, includes all the text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dictionary ``adventure`` that has as values dictionaries as well, includes all the text
```

> needed to play the game. The value of a door eg door '1' is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needed to play the game. The value of a door, eg door '1', is
```

> also a dictionary, with keys ``'greeting'`` that is the text to show when the user enters the room and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also a dictionary, with key ``'greeting'`` which is the text to show when the user enters the room and
```

``"options"`` which is a list of dictionaries with the "action" to display and then the "result" to show to the
user when they choose this option. Currently only the door 1 is defined.

A) Take some time to understand the structure of the dictionary adventure in the code below. Copy this code to a new file and continue the
   program in the indicated line and print the greeting of the chosen door, using the value from the dictionary.
   Eg. the greeting of the door '1' can be accessed with ``adventure['1']['greeting']`` or if the door number is in a variable
   called door, ``adventure[door]['greeting']`` will get the greeting for the variable door from the dictionary.
   This value can be passed directly into a print statement.

> B) Exactly after the print of the greeting print the possible actions for each option of the chosen door.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
B) Exactly after the print of the greeting, print the possible actions for each option of the chosen door.
```

   eg:

::

    1. Smile and node

    2. Scream and run

Tips:
    * Accessing the action of the first option of the first door can be done with  ``adventure['1']['options'][0]['action']``

>     * For loop is needed to go through the list of options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``for`` loop is needed to go through the list of options.
```

>     * To show the number of each option python enumerate function can be useful, http://book.pythontips.com/en/latest/enumerate.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * To show the number of each option python ``enumerate`` function can be useful, http://book.pythontips.com/en/latest/enumerate.html
```

C) Add more options to door ``'1'``.

D) Add more doors to the ``adventure`` dictionary.

    Tip: Copy paste the structure of door '1' and change the values to avoid missing commas and parenthesis, but remember to
    add a comma before your new values.

> E) If the chosen door is not available in adventure show a message. Tip to check if a value is one of the dictionary keys, the ``"in"`` or the ``"not in"`` can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E) If the chosen door is not available in adventure, show a message. Tip to check if a value is one of the dictionary keys, the ``"in"`` or the ``"not in"`` can be used.
```
